all right so qualcomm recently detailed
their new snapdragon 88 chip this is
their
new upcoming mobile processor that's
going to be appearing in a whole bunch
of new phones
but i want to do a video not just on the
chip and like the devices that are using
this but also
other flagship phones that seemingly may
not even use this chip next year
so just to open this up the new chip
the 888 the aaa let's call it that
because 88 does not roll off the tongue
very nicely
the triple eight there's i guess three
or four things that i think are
important number one
it's a five nanometer node samsung
fabrication so it should be more
efficient than previous generations of
snapdragon chips
secondly it's got a modem integrated
into the chip itself so
last year with the 865g you had to put
the 5g modems just
separately it was a separate module that
took up space and the insides of phones
this is now on board and in theory that
should reduce the cost
of production thirdly let's talk about
performance and this is
debatable so the way they market it the
new chip has a 25
increase in cpu performance and a 35
increase
in gpu performance but if you look at
the leaked benchmarks
that bump up in cp performance is really
only in single core the moment you go to
multi-core it's a much more modest
improvement the graphical performance
though does seem
impressive we'll have to see how it
plays out because it does rely on tech
that
not a lot of developers are using in
their games right now but the biggest
improvement that i see
on the snapdragon triple eight has got
to be in its image
processing the new spectra isp can
handle three streams so phones
with three cameras which is the vast
majority of the flagships out there
will be able to take images from all
three sensors
and combine the data to give you the
best image possible so all in all
the snapdragon 8 is a faster chip
probably more energy efficient
and will give you better images than
previous snapdragons
okay now as i looked at this thing and i
looked at the kind of devices that are
going to come up with this because they
listed a whole bunch of launch partners
like oneplus and
vivo like a whole bunch of brands
familiar brands were on there
but the one brand that was not on there
that i thought was a little strange
was samsung so we're supposed to be
getting the next
samsung galaxy smartphone in january
either the s21 or s30 whatever they end
up calling it
but this is a phone that's been leaked
for quite a while very unique looking
design
the camera bump on the back protrudes
quite aggressively and then kind of
melts
back into the side of the phone it's a
very unique looking device
so it wasn't included in that list of
launch partners that's not super
definitive
but we know that samsung's been working
on their exynos chip now traditionally
their exynos variants of smartphones are
worse performers than the snapdragons
right but
the leaks and rumors of this new exynos
chip with its
amd gpu component are very competitive
now i personally think that they'll
still have the snapdragon
8 variants but if they don't and it's
just x on us phones
it'll still be really good now the next
phones i want to talk about
are the oneplus phones these
traditionally come out in april but next
year they're supposed to be
coming out in march a little bit earlier
and they're supposed to be three of them
one plus nine one plus nine pro and one
plus nine e
these are all separate from the nord
lineup these are just the three regular
oneplus
phones and the thing i'm drawn to is
okay
so i i like oneplus phones in particular
i like the oneplus 8 pro
this was a really good camera system
good ultra wide
good telephoto great macro lens this was
a cool camera system to me
my favorite from 2020 just in terms of
cameras
but the rest of the oneplus lineup has
always suffered from
i don't want to say mediocre cameras i
just want to be like they just
their camera systems could be better and
i feel like with
the snapdragon triple eight combined
with their camera hardware
they can do something really cool like
that's just the nature of
the combination right normally when you
have really good camera hardware
you can do a lot of good stuff with it
but when you have kind of middle of the
road
camera hardware which oneplus phones
often have and you combine it with a
triple isp i'm convinced that the next
one plus phones
will really be able to take advantage of
the snapdragon
8 image processing okay next up
pixel phones so pixel took a pretty
unique direction this year they released
a flagship phone that didn't have a
flagship processor in it but it still
had a very
competitive experience right this felt
like a good phone
a little expensive but solid phone
otherwise the rumor is that google has
been working
on their own soc arm-based in
conjunction with samsung to make a chip
that is tuned specifically to their kind
of
project now here's the thing if you take
a step back and you look at
the the the mechanics behind all this
stuff
it does not make good financial sense to
design and fabricate a custom
chip for a phone unless you have
huge plans for it right that stuff is
super super expensive
it is astronomically expensive to make
your own chip for your phones
especially when you have stuff like
snapdragons available right this is
google could use that stuff whenever
they want but they chose seemingly
chose to make their own chip they call
it project white chapel
and this is this is big this is huge to
me
if you think about what google
represents when it came to phones like
the biggest thing that they did the
the the feature that they brought to the
whole smartphone game was
good computational photography right
they were the first to do it really well
and it kind of revolutionized the way
that we use our smartphones it
revolutionized smartphone photography
now everybody has
computational photography right it was
interesting to me that this year on the
pixel 5
they chose to not get a high-end
snapdragon chip they were able to
achieve
this phone with a mid-range soc
so if they're making their own if
they're going through the expense in the
effort to make their own
custom designed chip for their pixel
phones
my guess is that it's gonna it's gonna
go to the next level
whatever they wanted to do whatever they
wanted to achieve with the next
generation of pixel
couldn't have been done with the
snapdragon triple eight or else they
would have just used it
right but i think they're going for
something bigger and better
hopefully the next pixel takes another
massive leap
in camera tech because we've been stuck
with this sensor for
a long time since like the pixel 3 it's
been using the same camera sensor the
imx 363 i think it's been a while
on the same sensor and there's got to be
a reason why they haven't switched
right i think they just they needed
their own chip they needed
something to do more because when you
design your own chip
you can tailor it to your specific needs
if you want your machine learning to
process a certain way if you want your
hardware and software to be integrated a
certain way you can do
all of that when you have control on the
hardware as well as your software
so this year i think the snapdragon
[Music]
[Applause]
you saw nothing don't tell qualcomm but
i think we'll see the snapdragon
8 in a lot of great android flagships
but i also think this is the year
that we're going to get diversity so
that the high-end android flagships have
different
high-end socs not all just the same chip
with the same capabilities which i
personally welcome i like seeing options
like that
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs if you liked it subs if you loved
it i'll see you guys next time
[Music]
you